Version control, also known as source control, is the practice of tracking and managing changes to software code. They are also tools that help software teams manage chanages that occur to their source code each time there is an update from their team member.It keeps track of every modification to the code of a special kind of database.As development environments have accelerated, version control systems help software teams work faster and smarter. They are especially useful for teams since they help them to reduce development time and increase successful deployments.If a mistake is made, developers can turn back the clock and compare earlier versions of the code to help fix the mistake while minimizing disruption to all team members.For almost all software projects, the source code is like the crown jewels a precious asset whose value must be protected. For most software teams, the source code is a repository of the invaluable knowledge and understanding about the problem domain that the developers have collected and refined through careful effort. Version control protects source code from both catastrophe and the casual degradation of human error and unintended consequences.
Git is a free open source version actively maintained open source project originally developed in 2005 by Linus Torvalds. It is distributed and every developer has their code repository locally. It has support for merging, rewriting history and branching. Unlike some version control software, Git is not fooled by the names of the files when determining what the storage and version history of the file tree should be, instead, Git focuses on the file content itself.Git has been designed with the integrity of managed source code as a top priority,Designed to protect the code and the change history against both accidental and malicious change and ensures that the history is fully traceable.One common criticism of Git is that it can be difficult to learn.

 Creating a new repository: You need to create a new repository and click on the plus sign.Fill up all the required details, i.e., repository name, description and also make the repository public this time as it is free.

 Create your local project in your desktop directed towards a current working directory: Move to the specific path in your local computer by cd 'path_name'. The cd commands stand for 'change directory' and it is used to change to the working directory in your operating system, and to locate your file, 'path_name'. This command can identify the required file that you are looking to work with.

 Initialize the git repository:Use git init to initialize the repository. It is used to create a new empty repository or directory consisting of files' with the hidden directory. '.git' is created at the top level of your project, which places all of the revision information in one place.

 Add the file to the new local repository.
 Commit the files staged in your local repository by writing a commit message.
 Copy your remote repository's URL from GitHub.
  Add the URL copied, which is your remote repository to where your local content from your repository is pushed.
Push the code in your local repository to GitHub: git push -u origin master is used for pushing local content to GitHub.In the code, the origin is your default remote repository name and '-u' flag is upstream, which is equivalent to '-set-upstream.' and the master is the branch, name.upstream is the repository that we have cloned the project.Fill in your GitHub username and password.
View your files in your repository hosted on GitHub.